Rep. Francis Rooney and Rep. Charlie Crist both represent congressional districts in Florida, but Rooney votes as a Conservative Republican and Crist votes as a moderate Democrat.

Both Francis Rooney and Charlie Crist voted for Kate’s Law: HR 3004, which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 257 to 167.

If an illegal alien has a felony and 3 misdemeanors and gets deported and comes back 3 times, he can be sentenced in federal prison for up to 10 years. 
It will make it easier for Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents to arrest and prosecute criminal illegal aliens. 

“It demonizes the ‘immigrant community’—that’s the Democratic party’s rationale,” Bill O’Reilly said on the Glenn Beck radio show. 

“The guy who killed Kate had been deported 5 times and came back 6 times,” he said.” San Francisco let him out of jail and three weeks later, he shoots Kate dead.”

“This is the most extreme situation I’ve has seen in 42 years in journalism, O’Reilly said.” “The Dems not supporting it and the media ignoring it. It is symbolic of why America is in so much trouble.”

Francis Rooney has voted to support HR 3003, the anti-sanctuary cities law, while Charlie Crist voted against it, as he believes it is unfair to the immigrant community. It passed by a vote of 228 to 195.

Generally speaking, Rooney is supports stricter immigration policy than Crist. HR3003 would cut off federal aid to cities that offer a sanctuary for illegals. 

According to Rooney’s website, H.R. 3003, No Sanctuary for Criminals Act, would provide for “stricter penalties for jurisdictions that operate as sanctuary cities, including barring Department of Justice and Homeland Security grants from being allocated to sanctuary jurisdictions.”

“It is tragically too late to save the life of Kate Steinle, who was murdered by a 5-time deported criminal illegal alien with seven prior felony convictions,” Congressman Rooney stated on his website. “We must deter illegal immigrants who have been convicted and deported, from re-entering our country. This deterrent will protect our citizens and assist in preventing the loss of more innocent lives. In addition, the bill focuses on preventing highly organized and brutal gangs such as MS-13 from taking advantage of our immigration loopholes to traffic drugs and negatively influence our children.”

Congressman Rooney continued, “we have also taken action against rogue cities that refuse to respect federal law, yet believe they should be entitled to federal funding. Cities who refuse to uphold the law should not receive one penny of federal grant money. The safety and security of our communities are at stake.”

Charlie Crist, in comparison, believes that sanctuary cities should retain their right to operate as such and continue to receive the federal funding. 
