Pork Industry Lobby Targets Key Republicans
By Eric Englert

Washington--The National Pork Producers’ Council has targeted two key congressional Republicans for large quarterly donations in its quest to influence key agricultural policies.

Congressman David Rouzer, R-NC, and congressman David Young, R-IA have each received $5000 in the first quarter of 2017 and Rouzer received $10,000 in 2016 from the National Pork Producers PAC for their congressional races, according to The Center for Responsive Politics. These congressmen are both from states where pig farmers are in high supply and will vote on key issues for the pork lobby. 

One such issue, food security, has garnered the attention of both congressmen. Rep.Young sponsored a bill in the House that gave more authority to the Department of Homeland Security to oversee the nation’s food supply and protect it from terrorist attack. Rouzer also supported that bill. The NPPC had lobbied for the bill, as it is closely tied to another of its priorities--the lack of an emergency Foot and Mouth Disease vaccine bank. Whether or not both of lawmakers will support that as part of the 2018 Farm Bill has yet to be determined. 

Farm Bill legislation is about a year away, as many competing interests jockey for the Farm Bill budget. 

Congressman Rouzer’s state is also a key state for Hog giant Smithfield Foods—the nation’s number one pork supplier and meat packer. North Carolina has 40 Smithfield locations, and although under Chinese ownership, has been given the regulatory green light for much of its dealings with a country that has lax food security and safety requirements. Rouzer receives a majority of his funding from agribusiness, receiving more than $289,000 from this sector in the 2012 congressional elections.

David Young’s Iowa is also a large pork-producing state, with about 20 million pigs raised there. The Iowa Cattlemen’s Association and the Iowa Pork Producers Association both regularly lobby Young on agricultural security issues. 

Other important names in the NPPC list include Kevin McCarthy of California, Bob Goodlatte of Texas, and Adam Kinzinger of Illinois. 



